# Invitation to Google interview 2022-02

**Google Final Interviews - Preparation materials**

How to: Prepare for a Google Engineering Interview

- [Prepare for an Engineering Interview](http://app.k6222f.com/click?ld=nrAmV1Ua%2BCOYZnPPAzKW8zw9JgbBXoH9jvw8Hcm8ztZvVAyjUfveDA%2F4xbHY0%2FseJsmEfAvGkiiuk40O8Fdc%2Fzrrm0K%2FqOvkr)

- [Sample Coding/EngineeringInterview](http://app.k6222f.com/click?ld=nrAmV1Ua%2BCOYZnPPAzKW8zw9JgbBXoH9sPEAskLMmh1%2F5mpQemfgCdA4AqCEdqzjIGAsMSVpzm73Wz9StC0KJe%2F4tezhpyG%2F19JxrxnFJHAyvCDVI7hPDiNWjGhXAFCbW)

- [Interview tips from Google Software Engineers](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XOtrOSatBoY)

**Interview Preparation**

Generally I recommend to prepare for the following categories:

Computer Science Theory/Concepts Problem Solving Algorithms incl. time
complexity Data Structures Programming System Design - the following two links
seem to be great sources to prepare with:
[Github](http://github.com/checkcheckzz/system-design-interview)
[Hired in Tech](http://www.hiredintech.com/system-design)

**Top 10 Algos for Coding Interview**
[https://www.programcreek.com/2012/11/top-10-algorithms-for-coding-interview/](https://www.programcreek.com/2012/11/top-10-algorithms-for-coding-interview/)

Also you can find more detailed information
[here](https://careers.google.com/how-we-hire/interview/#interviews-for-software-engineering-and-technical-roles)
on our careers page.

Google interviews focus very heavily on algorithms and data structures. You'll
be expected to know and apply: lists, maps, stacks, priority queues, binary
trees, graphs, bags, and sets. You'll need to to talk about how they're
implemented and why you'd choose one implementation or data structure instead of
another.

For algorithms you'll want to know greedy algorithms, divide and conquer,
dynamic programming, recursion, and brute force search. You'll definitely want
to be conversant with big­O notation, time­space complexity, and real world
performance of all of this. Most importantly you will need to be able to pick
the right data structure and algorithm for a specific problem

**Strong suggestion**: Check out [Pramp.com](Pramp.com)
[https://www.pramp.com/#/](https://www.pramp.com/#/) - where you can practice
your interviewing and have mockup interviews (for free) Several sites that
provide similar problems to those typically asked in the interview are:
**HackerRank, Topcoder, Codeforces, Leetcode, InterviewBit, Kattis**

One interview will focus on the **System Design/ Software Architecture**.

**What is System Design?** Here is a great overview from GitHub
[https://github.com/donnemartin/system-design-primer](https://github.com/donnemartin/system-design-primer)

Regarding System Design, bear in mind to:

- Think broadly at first, as you will be implementing a large scale system
- Clearly and systematically analyze the problem (split the task in components
  and size them)
- Have a good understanding of scalability (Google works on a HUGE scale)
- Be prepared to design API's/ algorithms for the system
- Gather an understanding of distributed systems
- Be prepared to thrive in ambiguity (this will be an open-ended question, you
  need to lead the conversation)
- Think of the user and put the user first

**Example SD questions to help you prepare:** Design Google Suggest Design Gmail
(back-end/ front-end) Design a building access system Design the shopping feeds
system

Some sources/ background reading:

- [Software Engineering Advice from Building Large-Scale Distributed Systems](http://static.googleusercontent.com/media/research.google.com/en/us/people/jeff/stanford-295-talk.pdf)

- [Wikipedia - Ultra Large Scale Systems](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ultra-large-scale_systems#Characteristics_of_an_ultra-large-scale_system)

- [Five Considerations For Large Scale Systems](https://sites.google.com/site/craigandera/craigs-stuff/scalability-considerations/five-considerations-for-large-scale-systems)

- [System Design Interview for IT company](https://github.com/checkcheckzz/system-design-interview)

- [Hired in Tech - System Design](https://www.hiredintech.com/system-design)

Here are couple of videos which will help you prepare for
a System Design interview.

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q0KGYwNbf-0](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q0KGYwNbf-0)
[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Gg318hR5JY0](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Gg318hR5JY0)
[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=REB_eGHK_P4](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=REB_eGHK_P4)
[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DSGsa0pu8-k](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DSGsa0pu8-k)
[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KmAyPUv9gOY](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KmAyPUv9gOY)

Some additional hints for your onsite interview:

- Keep simple things simple!

- Try to keep your answers compact. Trust that the interviewer will ask
  clarifying questions if they would like to know more.

- Establish a two-way connection with your interviewer

- Even if you have the feeling that your solution is "silly" or "too" simple, go
  ahead and mention it to the interviewer. He/She will let you know if you can
  continue in that direction or if you should try to find something more
  complex.

- Some questions can be ambiguous. Don't be afraid to ask clarifying questions
  or give small examples to confirm that you understood the question well. Don't
  assume!

- If you have seen the question before, please mention it. Our interviewers have
  access to a very long list of questions and will move on to the next one.
  Nothing is as obvious as a candidate who has done it before!

- Be very open to any nudges or advice the interviewer gives you. Showing that
  you are open to suggestions will shed light on what kind of potential team
  member you could be.

- It is possible that you feel one of the interviews didn't go very well. Don't
  let this impact you. The interviewers can not see each other's feedback.

- Sometimes changing the physical environment you are in can re-set your
  mindset. For example: simply going to the bathroom to wash your hands.

**Non Technical Interview:** When you meet with your interviewers, they’ll be
assessing you on not only your technical skills but also on Googleyness and
Leadership, using a mix of behavioural and hypothetical questions:

**Leadership:** Be prepared to discuss how you have used your communication and
decision-making skills to mobilize others. This might be by stepping up to a
leadership role at work or with an organization, or by helping a team succeed
even when you weren’t officially the leader. **Googleyness:** Share how you work
individually and on a team, how you help others, how you navigate ambiguity, and
how you push yourself to grow outside of your comfort zone.

A behavioral question looks at how you've handled a specific challenge in the
past to assess if you’ll be a good match for the role. Sample topics
include:Communication , Decision making , Initiative , Organization , Time
management , Flexibility , Problem solving. Behavioural questions usually start
with phrases such as  “tell me about a time when” or “give me an example of” or
“describe a decision you made.” Interviewers are looking for examples of what
you have done and how you have done it. They may follow up with more probing
questions such as, “what did you do then?” or “what was the result?”

**Examples of behavioral questions** _“Describe two specific goals you set for
yourself and how successful you were in meeting them. What factors led to your
success?”_

Things to consider for your answer:

- Your objectives—be clear on those up front.

- Reasons you chose those particular goals.

- Any measures you set up to track progress.

- Obstacles you overcome and things learned along the way.

_“Tell me about a time when you failed to meet a deadline. What did you fail to
do? What did you learn?_”

Things to consider for your answer:

- The root cause.

- How you applied what you learned in future projects.

TIP: For interviews at Google, come prepared with several examples that
demonstrate your soft skills in the two categories we assess.

What’s a hypothetical question?

While behavioral questions assess your past performance, hypothetical (also
known as situational) questions evaluate how you would handle a challenge you
may not have encountered yet.

Questions often begin with “Imagine that…” and are designed to assess your
thought process rather than “right” or “wrong” solutions. We don’t use brain
teasers, but instead want to know how you would approach a typical problem
scenario that is related to the role or that Googlers have faced in the past.

**Examples of hypothetical questions**

_“Imagine you are in charge of organizing the grand opening of a new Google
office in Bangalore, India. What steps would you take to plan this event?”_

Things to Consider for your answer:

- The objective of the event, and measurement of success.

- Who will be invited to the event

- Logistics around the event, set-up, location, timing

- Stakeholders to involve in the process.

**General tips for success**

- Listen carefully. Rephrasing questions or asking for clarity is okay, as is
  telling the interviewer you want time to collect your thoughts.

- Be concise. Make sure you’re answering the question and not using a prepared
  example that isn’t applicable or related to the questions.

- Think in terms of examples that will showcase your top selling points.

- Don’t worry about giving the right answer. The interviewer will be looking to
  see the thought process versus the answer itself. Expect follow-up questions.

- Come prepared with thoughtful questions (e.g., team priorities, culture,
  etc.). Interviewing is a two-way street, so we want you to feel comfortable
  and understand how a role at Google could help you grow your career.

- During & after your interviews

- Google has a unique hiring process which can take several weeks. We strive to
  keep you updated, but don’t hesitate to reach out to your recruiter if you
  have any questions. For more information on our interview process and our
  hiring philosophy, visit our How We Hire site.

If you have any questions, please let me know and otherwise I am looking forward
to hear from you soon and wish you all the best for your upcoming interviews.

As discussed , here are some stories of our Googlers on how they
successfully interviewed with Google.This will also give you great perspective
from an interesting angle on what we focus on.

[https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/my-guide-preparing-google-technical-interview-anthony-mays/](https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/my-guide-preparing-google-technical-interview-anthony-mays/)
[https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/interviewing-google-heres-6-things-you-absolutely-need-anthony-mays/?trk=hp-feed-article-title-share](https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/interviewing-google-heres-6-things-you-absolutely-need-anthony-mays/?trk=hp-feed-article-title-share)
